# Bounded Recvr

Next, we will define a Lua table that will represent the receiving half of our channel. This
table will have 2 properties `_link` which will be our `BoundedChannel` and a `timeout` which will
be an optional `number`.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/recvr.lua:3:4}}
```

Ok, let's create a constructor for it, this will take 1 argument which should populate
its `_link` property.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/recvr.lua:8:10}}
```

Notice we didn't include a `timeout` property at all, this is because
we want it to be `nil` by default. In order to match the same API that
`cosock.channel` uses let's add a method for setting our `timeout`.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/recvr.lua:18:20}}
```

Next, we want to define the `setwaker` method used by this side of the queue.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/recvr.lua:42:47}}
```

In this method, we have added a check to make sure it isn't getting called
with a `kind` of `"sendr"` since that would be pretty much meaningless. If
we have a valid `kind` then we pass the waker down to `self._link:set_waker_recvr`.

Ok, now for the good stuff: the `receive` method.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/recvr.lua:22:40}}
```

Alright, there is a lot going on here so let's unpack it. To start we have a long-running
loop that will only stop when we have reached either an error or a new message. Each iteration
of the loop first checks if `self._link:can_recv()`, if that returns `1`, then we call
`self._link:pop_front` to capture our eventual return value, next we want
to alert any senders that more space has just been made on our queue so we call
`self._link:try_wake("sendr")`, finally we return the element we popped off ending our loop.
If `can_recv` returned `nil` we check to see which `err` was provided, if it was `"closed"`
we return that in the error position also ending our loop. If `can_recv` returns `nil, "empty"`
then we want to yield until either we get woken by a sender or we have waited for the duration
of `self.timeout`. We do this by calling `coroutine.yield({self}, nil, self.timeout)`, this
will give up control to cosock until either someone calls `BoundedChannel:try_wake("recvr")` or our
`timeout` is reached.

If we recall that `coroutine.yield` returns a list of ready receivers and a list of senders
or `nil, nil` and an error message. This means if `coroutine.yield` returns `{self}` then
we have a new message so we go to the top of the loop and the next call to `self.link:can_recv`
should return `1` or `nil, "closed"`. If `coroutine.yield` returns `nil, nil, "timeout"` that
means we have yielded for `self.timeout`.

One final thing we want to make sure is that we are keeping our end of that `nil "closed"`
bargain, so let's define a `closed` method.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/recvr.lua:12:16}}
```

For this, we first call `self.link:close` which will set our shared table's `_closed` property
to `true` which will ultimately make both `can_send` and `can_recv` return `nil, "closed"`. Next,
we want to wake up any sending tasks since they are reliant on us to tell them something has
changed, so we call `self._link:try_wake("sendr")`.

With that we have the complete receiver side of our channel, now let's write up the sender.
