# Bounded Channel: Finish

At this point, we have most of our `BoundedChannel` and all of our `BoundedChannelReceiver`
and `BoundedChannelSender` set up so the last thing we need to do is add a constructor
to `BoundedChannel`.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/init.lua:18:28}}
```

This constructor takes 1 argument, the number telling us how large our queue can get.
This returns 2 tables, the first return is a `BoundedChannelSender` and the second
return is a `BoundedChannelReceiver` both have the same shared `BoundedChannel` as
their `_link` property.

Now let's see our new channel in action!


```lua
{{#include ../examples/use_bounded_channel.lua}}
```

After we import both `cosock` and our `BoundedChannel` we create a new channel pair
with a maximum queue size of 2. We then spawn 2 new tasks for the sender, in these tasks
we loop 10 times, sending a message and then sleeping for 0.2 seconds.
We have a call to `cosock.socket.gettime` here before and after the `send` to see if there is any
delay.

Next, we spawn a task for our receiver, this receives a message and then sleeps for 1 second
20 times.

Since we are sending a lot faster than we are receiving, we would expect that after the
first few messages we should see the amount of time it takes to send a message hits about
1 second indicating that our queue has reached its maximum of 2. If we were to run this
we should see something _like_ the following.

```text
sent 1 in 0.0s
sent 11 in 0.0s
recd 1 in 0.0s
sent 2 in 0.2s
recd 11 in 1.0s
sent 12 in 1.0s
recd 2 in 1.0s
sent 13 in 1.0s
recd 12 in 1.0s
sent 14 in 1.0s
recd 13 in 1.0s
sent 15 in 1.0s
recd 14 in 1.0s
sent 16 in 1.0s
recd 15 in 1.0s
sent 17 in 1.0s
recd 16 in 1.0s
sent 18 in 1.0s
recd 17 in 1.0s
sent 19 in 1.0s
recd 18 in 1.0s
sent 20 in 1.0s
recd 19 in 1.0s
sent 3 in 9.8s
recd 20 in 1.0s
sent 4 in 1.0s
recd 3 in 1.0s
sent 5 in 1.0s
recd 4 in 1.0s
sent 6 in 1.0s
recd 5 in 1.0s
sent 7 in 1.0s
recd 6 in 1.0s
sent 8 in 1.0s
recd 7 in 1.0s
sent 9 in 1.0s
recd 8 in 1.0s
sent 10 in 1.0s
recd 9 in 1.0s
recd 10 in 1.0s
```

From this output, we can determine the exact order things played out. First,
we can see that `sendr1` is able to push `1` onto the queue, then it sleeps for 0.2
seconds which allows `sendr2` to push `11` onto the queue which also sleeps for 0.2
seconds then `recvr` pops `1` off the queue followed by a 1-second sleep.

For the first time at this point, we have 3 sleeping tasks. Since `sendr1` went first
it will be the first to wake from its `sleep`, pushes `2` onto the queue and
then goes back to `sleep` which allows `sendr2` to wake up and try to send `12` but the queue is
full (`{11, 2}`), so it has to wait until `recvr` wakes up to pop `11` off the queue. Once `recvr`
pops `11` off the queue, we see that `sendr2` is able to push `12` but it took 1 full second
to do so! Now we will stay in a state where both `sendr1` and `sendr2` are waiting to send
for ~1 second until `recvr` is able to `receive` at which point either `sendr1` or `sendr2`
again pushes a new value. Once we reach the last 2 values, we see that our `sendr`s go quiet
because they are all done with their work but `recvr` still takes another 2 seconds to complete.

> Did you notice that `sendr2` gets to go far more often than `sendr1` at this start and
> it takes `sendr1` 9.8 seconds to send `3`?
> [This is because of our waker scheme and Appendix A has more on that](./Appendix-A.md)
