# Bounded Channel

To start we are going to define a Lua table that will represent our shared bounded
queue.


```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/init.lua:11:12}}
```

This table should have the following properties

- `_wakers`: This is a table with 2 keys
  - `sendr`: This is a map of potential functions where the keys are a table representing
             the waiting sender
  - `recvr`: An optional function that takes no arguments, this will wake our receiver
- `_max_depth`: This is the integer value that our queue should not grow larger than
- `_msg_queue`: This is the message queue we will use to hold pending messages
- `_closed`: This is a boolean to indicate if we have been explicitly closed

To make our lives easier, next we will add a couple of methods that will enforce the
queue nature of our `_msg_queue`, one for removing the oldest message and one for
adding a new message.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/init.lua:31:38}}
```

Next, let's add a method for testing if we can send a new message.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/init.lua:73:86}}
```

This method first checks that we haven't been closed, if we have then it returns
`nil, "closed"`, if we are still open it next checks to see if we have any space in
our queue, if not it returns `nil, "full"`. So if we are not closed and not full
it returns 1.

Now we should create a similar method for checking if we can receive a new message.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/init.lua:92:105}}
```

Again, we being by checking for the closed case, returning `nil, "closed"`, then we
check to see if the queue is empty, if so we return `nil, "empty"` if there is
at least 1 message and we aren't closed then we return `1`.

Now we can define a few methods for interacting with our `self._wakers` property.
First up is the `set_waker_recvr` method.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/init.lua:47:54}}
```

Ok, so this one is pretty simple now that we have our helpers. First, we populate the
value in `self._wakers.recvr`. If `waker` is not `nil` and `self:can_recv` returns `1` we want to
immediately call the `waker` because it means we are ready to be woken up.

For our next method, we are going to define `set_waker_sendr`.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/init.lua:40:42}}
```

This looks quite a bit different from `set_waker_recvr`! First of all, we have an extra argument
`sendr` which will represent a unique call to `coroutine.yield` and is how we can allow for
multiple senders. The second thing to notice is that we are not checking to see if `self:can_send`
this is because we don't know if another `waker` has already been woken up for the current state.
This is all a bit hand-wavy right now but when we implement the sender things should become clear.

Now that we can set a waker, it is time to add a method for calling those waker functions.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/init.lua:57:67}}
```

Our new `try_wake` method takes 1 argument, which will either be the string `"sendr"` or `"recvr"`.
If we are trying to wake a `"sendr"` then we use
[the `next` function](https://www.lua.org/manual/5.3/manual.html#pdf-next) to find 1 entry in the
table `self._wakers.sendr`, if we have at least 1 entry in that table we assign the value to `waker`.
If we are trying to wake a `"recvr"` we assign `self._wakers.recvr` to `waker`. If `waker` is
a function (aka not `nil`) then we call that function.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/init.lua:108:110}}
```

`close` will just set our `_closed` property
to `true`

Ok, now that we have our shared channel defined, let's implement our receiver.
