# Bounded Channel: Sendr

To start, we define our Lua table which represents the sending half of our channel.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/sendr.lua:5:6}}
```

This table will have the same shape as our `BoundedChannelReceiver`, it will have a
`_link` property and a `timeout` property; our constructor is nearly identical.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/sendr.lua:10:12}}
```

We will also define a `settimeout` method that looks exactly the same.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/sendr.lua:53:55}}
```

Our `close` method is also very close to the receiver's implementation.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/sendr.lua:15:19}}
```

Here, just the argument to `self._link:try_wake` changed from `"sendr"` to `"recvr"`.

Now we start to see things become quite different. The first thing to note is that we are
not going to define a `setwaker` method for this table. This may seem strange since it is
one of the few things that we need to do to make a "cosock aware" table but if we were
to use the same `setwaker` for all of the places that we call `BoundedSender:send`, we would
end up gumming up the internal workings of cosock. To see how we get around this it would be
good to go over the implementation of `send`.

```lua
{{#include ../examples/bounded_channel/sendr.lua:23:49}}
```

To start, things look a lot like our `BoundedRecvr:receive` implementation, we have
a long-running loop that first calls `self._link:can_send`, if that returns `1` we
use the `push_back` helper to add the message to our queue and then we try to wake up
any yielded `"recvr"`s, returning `1` to indicate it was successful. If `can_send` returned
an error message and that message was `"closed"` we return `nil, "closed"`. If `can_send` returned
the error message `"full"` we want to `yield` until we can try again. 

To prepare for yielding, we first create a table called `wake_t` this will represent a single
call to `BoundedSender:send` that is yielding. On `wake_t` we set 1 property and that is the
`setwaker` method which uses `assert` to raise an error if it was called with a `kind`
of `"recvr"` and then uses the `BoundedChannel:set_waker_sendr` method to associate the
`waker` argument with `wake_t`. By creating this temporary table, what we are doing is allowing
for a unique `waker` function to be defined on any threads that need waking. If we were to use a
single `BoundedChannel._wakers.sendr` function, we would end up removing the ability
to wake any `yields` beyond the last because calling `waker` always calls `setwaker(kind, nil)` to
avoid potential "double wakes".

Now that we have set up our `wake_t` we can call `couroutine.yield` this time we are going
to use the arguments `nil, {wake_t}, self.timeout`. Since we put `wake_t` in the `sendt`
argument, we will wait until we either reach the duration of `self.timeout` or when someone
calls `BoundedChannel:try_wake("sendr")` and our `wake_t` is returned from `next`.

> This is probably the easiest way to create these unique `waker`s but it does come with a
> potential issue. If you are interested in _using_ this implementation please review
> [Appendix-A](./Appendix-A.md)

Now, let's finish up our implementation and see if we can see our bounded channel working.
